Urosalpinx tampaensis Conrad Tampa Drill 

Tampa Bay area, west Florida. 

V2 to I inch in length; the light-brown aperture is thickened and the 
outer lip has 6 small, white teeth. With about 9 to 1 1 sharp, axial ribs per 
whorl, crossed by about 9 to i o equally strong spiral cords on the last whorl, 
thus giving the shell a cancellate sculpture. The whorls in the spire show 
only 2 spiral, nodulated cords. Exterior dark-gray. Common on mudflats. 

Genus Purpura Bruguiere 1789 
Purpura patula Linne Wide-mouthed Purpura 

Plate 25I 

Southeast Florida and the West Indies. 

2 to 3/4 inches in length; without an umbilicus. Exterior dull, rusty- 
gray. Columella salmon-pink. Inner borders of aperture with splotches of 
blackish brown. Common in the West Indies, uncommon in Florida. The 
animal exudes a harmless hquid which stains the hands and collecting bag a 
permanent violet. 

The subspecies pansa Gould (west coast of Mexico south to Columbia) 
is similar in most respects, but the columella is colored a whitish cream. 

Genus Thais Roding 1798 
Subgenus Stramonita Schumacher 1817 

Thais haemastoma floridaJia Conrad Florida Rock-shell 

Plate 25a 

North Carolina to Florida, and the Caribbean. 

2 to 3 inches in length, solid, smooth to finely nodulose. Color light- 
gray to yellowish with small flecks and irregular bars of brownish. Interior 
of aperture salmon-pink, often with brown between the denticulations of the 
outer lip. Running inside the aperture high up on the body whorl above the 
parietal area, there is a strong spiral ridge. Some specimens have a faint fold 
or phca on the base of the columella. This is a very common species, but 
quite variable in shape and color pattern. Typical hae?7msto??M Lamarck oc- 
curs in the Mediterranean and West Africa. See additional remarks under 
Thais rustica. 

Thais haemastoma haysae Clench Hays' Rock-shell 

Northwest Floriaa to Texas. 

This subspecies is characterized by its large size (up to 4% inches in 



214 American Seashells 

length), strongly indented suture, and rugose sculpture with a row of double, 
strong nodules on the shoulder of the whorls. M. D. Burkenroad (1931) has 
given a long account of the biology of this oyster pest. 

Thais rustica Lamarck Rustic Rock-shell 

Plate 25f 

Southeast Florida and the West Indies. Bermuda. 

I /4 inches in length, irregularly sculptured with 2 spiral rows of blunt 
spines, one on the shoulder, the other at the center of the body whorl. Color 
dirty-gray to dull mottled brown. Interior of aperture whitish but generally 
margined with spots of dark-brown along the outer lip. Parietal wall glossy- 
white. This species is smaller and more nodulose than floridana and always 
has a white aperture. Erroneously called Thais imdata Lamarck which is an 
Indo-Pacific species. 

Three confusing species are often found together in southern Florida. 
The young of Canthariis tinctits (see p. 233) has the lower third of its white 
columella turned away (to the left) 20 degrees from the axis of the shell, and 
its early whorls in the spire are not shouldered. Thais haemastoina floridana 
is characterized by its almost straight, cream to orange columella, and by the 
numerous raised cream or white spiral ridges on the inside of the outer lip. 
Thais rustica has a stouter, white columella which is slightly twisted and 
purple-stained at the lower, inner corner. Its outer lip teeth occur in groups 
of 2 or 3 and near the edge of the lip are stained by heavy blotches of purple- 
brown. 

Subgenus Mancinella Link 1807 
Thais deltoidea Lamarck Deltoid Rock-shell 

Plate 25b, k 

Jupiter Inlet, Florida, to the West Indies. Bermuda. 

I to 2 inches in length, heavy, and coarsely sculptured with two spiral 
rows of large, blunt spines. Parietal wall tinted with lavender, mauve or rose. 
Interior of aperture glossy-white. Exterior grayish white with mottlings of 
black or dull brown. Columella with a small but distinct ridge at the base 
which forms the margin of the siphonal canal. This is an abundant species 
where intertidal rocks are exposed to the ocean surf. 

Subgenus Polytropa Swainson 1840 
Thais lapillus Linne Atlantic Dogwinkle 

Plate 2 5g 

Southern Labrador to New York. Norway to Portugal. 

I to 2 inches in length, roughly sculptured or smoothish. Commonly 



MURICIDAE 



215 



with rounded, spiral ridges. Sometimes imbricated with small scales (form 
named inibricata Lamarck, pi. 256). Color usually dull-white, but sometimes 
yellowish, orange or brownish. Rarely with dark-brown or blackish spiral 
bands. This species has also been known as Nucella lapillus. For biology see 
H. B. Moore (1936 and 1938). 




Figure 48. Pacific coast Dogwinkles. a, Thais emarginata Deshayes; b and c, 
T. cmialicidata Duclos; d, T. lima Gmelin; e to h, forms of T. lainellosa Gmelin. 

All about natural size. 
