Это Neptunea lyrata and Gmelin Common Northwest Neptune 

Plate 24q 

Arctic Ocean to Puget Sound, Washington. Poma-
tomus saltator.

4 to 5 inches in length, % as wide, solid, fairly heavy. With 5 to 6 
strongly convex whorls, bearing about 8 strong to poorly developed, raised 
spiral cords (2 of which usually show in each whorl in the spire). Faint, 
quite small, spiral threads are also present. Exterior dull whitish brown. 
Aperture enamel-white with a tan tint. Fairly common in Alaska from shore 
to 50 fathoms. This is Chrysodo?mis Jirata Martyn. 

Subgenus Ancistrolepis Dall 1894 
Neptunea eucosmia Dall Channeled Neptune 

Figure 516 
Alaska to Oregon. 

1V2 inches in length, solid, outer lip sharp, strong and crenulated. Si- 
phonal canal short, wide and slightly twisted. Spiral cords strong. Suture 
channeled. Shell chalk-white, but covered with a rather thick, yellow-brown 
to gray periostracum which is axially lamellate and bears minute, erect hairs. 
Aperture glossy-white. Not uncommonly dredged from 62 to 780 fathoms. 
N. calif ornica Dall and bicincta Dall appear to be this species. 

BUCCINIDAE 231 

Subgenus Sulcosipho Dall 1916 
Neptunea tabulata Baird Tabled Neptune 

Figure 5 if 

British Columbia to San Diego, California. 

3 to 4 inches in length, moderately solid, with 8 whorls, colored white 
with a thin brown periostracum. Characterized by the wide, flat channel 
next to the suture. It is bounded by a raised, scaly or fimbriated spiral cord. 
Remainder of whorl with numerous sandpapery spiral threads. A choice col- 
lector's item, not uncommonly dredged from 30 to 200 fathoms. 

Genus Kelletia Fischer 1884 
Kclletia kelleti Forbes Keller's Whelk 

Plate 24W 

Santa Barbara, California, to San Quentin Bay, Mexico. 

4 to 5 inches in length, characterized by its very heavy, white, fusiform 
shell, its fine, wavy suture, and by the sharp, crenulated outer lip. Whorls 
slightly concave between the suture and the shouldered periphery, which 
bears 10 strong, rounded knobs per whorl. Base with about 6 to 10 incised, 
spiral lines. Aperture glossy and white. Very commonly caught in traps 
from 10 to 35 fathoms. There are no other recent species in the genus. Often 
misspelled with two t's. 

Genus Bailya M. Smith 1944 
Bailya intricata Dall Intricate Baily-shell 

Plate 251 

Southern half of Florida. 

/4 inch in length, fairly strong, pure white in color and with cancellate 
sculpturing. Last whorl with 12 to 14 low axial ribs which are crossed by 
about a dozen spiral cords (between which there may be a much smaller 
thread). At their intersection there are small beads. Outer lip with a frilled, 
rounded varix. Columella smooth. Weak spiral cord present on inside of 
aperture on the upper parietal wall. Whorls slightly shouldered. No notch 
in lower part of outer lip. Nuclear whorl smooth, glassy and rounded. Un- 
common from I to 50 fathoms. 

Bailya parva C. B. Adams from the West Indies differs in not having its 
whorls shouldered, having weaker spiral cords, and in occasionally having 
brown coloring. 

Genus Antillophos Woodring 1928 
Antillophos candei Orbigny Cande's Phos 

Plate 25U 

North Carolina to south Florida and Cuba. 



232 American Seashells 

I to i^ inches in length, slightly less than half as wide; strong, heavy 
and pure white. Last whorl with about 13 small spiral cords and about 24 
stronger axial ribs. Where they cross, there are small, rounded beads. Outer 
lip near the low part has a shallow notch. Inside the lip are about a dozen 
prominent, spiral ridges. Columella with 2 low spiral ridges near the base, 
sometimes weaker ones above. Upper parietal wall with a strong spiral cord 
running back into the aperture. Nuclear whorls smooth, glossy, white and 
slightly carinate. Very commonly dredged from 20 to 100 fathoms. 

Genus Engina Gray 1839 
Engina turbinella Kiener White-spotted Engina 

Plate 25W 

Lower Florida Keys and the West Indies. 

Vs to y2 inch in length, dark purple-brown with about 10 low, white 
knobs per whorl on the periphery. Base with 2 to 4 spiral rows of much 
smaller white knobs. Microscopic spiral threads numerous. Aperture thick- 
ened and constricted by 4 to 5 whitish teeth on the outer lip and by a twist 
of the columella just above the narrow siphonal canal. Do not confuse with 
Mitra sulcata which has several columellar plications. Common under rocks 
at low tide. 



Genus Searlesia Harmer 191 6 
Searlesia dira Reeve Dire Whelk 

Figure 501! 

Alaska to Monterey, California. 

I to I /4 inches in length, half as wide, with the brown aperture half the 
length of the dark gray, fusiform shell. Outer lip thin but strong and with 
fine serrations which extend back into the shell as small spiral threads. Colu- 
mella arched, chocolate-brown and glossy. Whorls in spire with 9 to 1 1 low, 
rounded axial ribs, and all of the exterior with numerous fine, unequal-sized 
spiral threads. Siphonal canal short and slightly twisted to the left. A com- 
mon shallow-water species commonly from northern California to the north. 

Genus Coluhraria Schumacher 18 17 
Colubraria lanceolata Menke Arrow Dwarf Triton 

Plate 25X 

North Carolina to both sides of Florida and the West Indies. 

% to I inch in length, slender, with 7 whorls. Aperture long and nar- 
row. Varix strong and curled back. Parietal shield elevated into a collar. 



