Pomatomus saltator 

m^'jMMM 

mK<a 

•*.-ti 

B- 

r SsM CiClttl 

■i^ 

Mm ■ ^( UK 1€MC 

c.^ \MiarL 

wf^ei® 

<^ri.= 

imj3 

﻿﻿
NOV 1 8 1928 

'Soj*^ 

■VKxyAK 

﻿﻿﻿﻿AN 

ACCOUNT 

or THE 

FISHES OF THE GANGES. 

﻿Printed by George Ramsay and Co. 

﻿AN 

ACCOUNT 

OF THE 

FISHES 

FOUND IN 

THE RIVER GANGES AND ITS BRANCHES. 

BY 

FRANCIS HAMILTON, (formerly BUCHANAN,) M.D. 

FELLOW OF THE ROYAL SOCIETIES OF LONDON AND EDINBURGH ; 

THE SOCIETY OP ANTIQUARIES, AND OF THE LINN^AN SOCIETY OF LONDON ; 

AND OF THE ASIATICK SOCIETY OF CALCUTTA. 

WITH A VOLUME OF PLATES IN ROYAL QUARTO. 

EDINBURGH: 

PRINTED FOR ARCHIBALD CONSTABLE AND COMPANY, EDINBURGH; 
 AND HURST, ROBINSON, AND CO. 90, CHEAPSIDE, LONDON. 

1822. 

﻿X~ ^\i\? 

﻿INTRODUCTION. 

In this work I have described the Fishes found in the Ganges 
 and its tributary streams. Notwithstanding the great variety 
 of species here mentioned, I am persuaded, that the list is far 
 from being complete. For the two last years, indeed, of my 
 stay in India, and while engaged in countries remote from the 
 sea, I met with but few species that I had not before describ- 
 ed ; but, previous to my departure for Europe, on returning 
 to the vicinity of the numerous and large estuaries by which 
 this enormous river enters the sea, I daily met with species 
 which I had never before seen. Besides, it is probable, that, in 
 the Alpine sources of the Ganges and its branches, there are a 
 good many species which are not to be found in the rivers of 
 the plains, nor in the torrents among the puny hills of the 
 south. During a year's residence, however, near the capital of 
 Nepal, I observed few species thaf I had not previously seen ; 
 but fishing is not a favourite art among the people of that coun- 
 try, so that my opportunities of investigation were not great. 
 On the whole, I do not think, that, in the rivers above, where 
 the tide reaches, more than one kind in five has escaped my no- 
 tice ; — while of those found in the estuaries I have not proba- 

﻿VI INTRODUCTION. 

bly described above a half. This is the less to be regretted, as 
 a great proportion of them has probably been described in the 
 valuable work of Dr Eussell. 

In the arrangement of the fishes, I have followed the me- 
 thod of LiNN^us ; for, although that of La Cepede is more 
 complete, the distinctions arising from the gill-covers and mem- 
 branes are often traced with so much difficulty, as to occasion 
 much doubt in practice. In arranging the genera and species, 
 however, I have, for the most part, followed La Cepede. I had 
 finished the manuscript before I saw the valuable system of 
 CuviER ; and the numerous changes which would have been re- 
 quired to adopt it, would have occasioned a trouble, for which 
 the improvements, although considerable, would not, I think, 
 be a sufficient counterbalance. 

For the sake of my countrymen residing on the banks of the 
 Ganges, to whom this work should be peculiarly useful, I have 
 employed the English language, although the technical terms 
 necessary to be used in describing natural objects appear more 
 uncouth in a modern dialect than in the Latin tongue. I re- 
 quest the reader to observe, that, in speaking of the form of 
 fishes, I use the terms high and ^at to express their great or 
 small vertical breadth, while their horizontal breadths are ex- 
 pressed by the terms wide and narrow. These terms are, 
 therefore, applied differently in describing the flat fishes which 
 swim on one side, to what they are in describing all the 
 others, which swim with their bellies toward the bottom. In 
 writing of the back and vent fins, by the terms long and shorty 
 I mean the great or small length which these organs occupy on 
 the fishes' body j while by high and low I express the great or 

﻿\- 

INTRODUCTION. Vll 

small length of their rays. Again, in writing of the pectoral, 
 ventral, and tail fins, the terms long and sJiort are applied to 
 their greater or less extent from their root to their end. In 
 describing all fins, the term rounded implies that their upper 
 edge, along the extremities of the rays, forms a curve project- 
 ing in the middle ; and the term like a crescent, implies that 
 this edge forms a curve receding in the middle. The English 
 term oval implies the botanical Latin term ovatus, and not 
 ovalis. 

For the sake of those men of science to whom the English 
 language is not familiar, I have annexed a Synoptical Table in 
 Latin, following in this the example of Latham, in his excel- 
 lent work on Birds. 

To most of the species that 1 could not trace in authors, I 
 have given trivial names, derived from some of those used by 
 the natives of India, and altered as little as possibly consistent 
 with avoiding that total barbarity into which La Cepede has so 
 often fallen. In this I shall endeavour to imitate the vene- 
 rable RuMPHius, who, from the most barbarous materials, has 
 given many names greatly more polished than the sesquipe- 
 dalic compounds of the modern dealers in Greek. 

In their proper places I have introduced an account of a few 
 fishes observed in the rivers of the south of India ; but to these 
 1 have prefixed no numbers in the Synoptical Table. These 
 have only been annexed to the species found in the Ganges. 

The words printed in capitals or italics are chiefly intended 
 to assist the reader in finding more readily the objects which 
 are described. 

﻿﻿ERRATA. 

Page 165, after Pimelodus eita, Plate XXIV. wjserf and XXV. 
 Page 361, line first, expunge quod. 

Plate I. for Mugil Coesula read Pimelodus; the Mugil Corsula being 
 delineated Plate IX. fig. 97. 

﻿﻿DESCRIPTION 

OF THE 

GANGETIC FISHES. 

ORDER FIRST. 

FISHES HAVING A CARTILAGINOUS SPINE, 

I. Genus. — Raia or Skate. 

Fishes of the first order, which, on each side of the body 
 beneath, have five or seven breathing apertures without gill 
 covers or membranes ; which have the mouth opening from 
 below ; and which have the body very flat, and terminated on 
 the sides by a margin composed of the pectoral and ventral 
 fins. 

1st Species. — Raia fldviatilis. 
 Skates are very common in the Ganges, not only in the es- 
 tuaries, but very far removed from the sea ; for I have seen 
 them at Kanpur, more than a thousand miles above the extent 

﻿2 GANGETic FISHES. Order I. 

of the tide. In these upper parts of the river's course, and it is 
 found also in the estuaries, the species most common has a 
 strong resemblance to the Raia lymma ; has nearly the same 
 manners with the Raia aquila, and inflicts very dangerous 
 wounds with the spine on its tail. It is, however, a very com- 
 mon fish, in the markets of Patna especially, and is not mate- 
 rially different in taste from a small skate or maiden ray, [Raia 
 batis.) I always deferred taking a description, until I had an 
 opportunity of having it drawn, and that opportunity never 
 occurred. I cannot, therefore, give its specific character. 

2d Species. — Haia sancur. 

A raia with blunt teeth ; with the body and tail unarmed, 
 the latter provided with a fin ; and with the head ending be- 
 fore in the segment of a circle. 

The drawing of this fish was commenced, but never finish- 
 ed. It is common in the estuaries of the Ganges, both in fresh 
 and salt water ; but I have not seen it above where the tide 
 reaches. It grows to nearly the same size with the skate, [Raia 
 batis,) and for the table has nearly the same qualities. Ex- 
 cept in wanting the prickle on the tail, it has a strong resem- 
 blance to the first species. 

The shape of the whole animal, including the fins, approaches 
 that of a rhomb, the pectoral fins forming an angle near the 
 centre of the body. Independent of the fins, the body is ob- 
 long, and thicker, in proportion to its size, than that of the 
 skate. The colour is an ugly dark brown above, and white be- 
 neath. 

The head terminates in a blunt soft smooth snout. Near 
 this are the eyes, which are large ; and immediately behind 
 each is a large triangular aperture, analogous, I presume, to 
 our ear. The mouth is not large. The upper lip is a fleshy 

﻿Squalus. gangetic fishes. 3 

membrane arising from the fore part of the head, and ending 
 behind in a semicircular sinus. Under the fore part of this 
 membrane, at each side, is a large aperture in form of a cres- 
 cent, probably a nostril. In both jaws there are various rows 
 of blunt ieeth, closely wedged together. The apertures for 
 breathing consist of five slits placed behind each angle of the 
 mouth, so as with it to form a kind of circle open towards the 
 tail. 

The body every where below, and towards the sides above, 
 is quite smooth ; but on the middle of the back is covered with 
 small rough scales, The vent is behind the middle. The tail is 
 more than twice the length of the whole body, and very slen- 
 der. It is quite smooth, and tapers gradually from the root, 
 which is flat, to the point, where it becomes like a thick 
 thread. It is scabrous above ; but is neither prickly nor armed 
 with a spine. 

There is no dorsal Jin, but behind the head there is a light 
 coloured hard protuberance, the rudiment probably of this or- 
 gan. The pectoral Jins edge the greater part of the body, and, 
 forming a slight angle near the middle, are rounded behind. 
 The ventral Jins are much smaller than the pectorals, and edge 
 the body between them and the tail. They are rounded be- 
 hind, and their edges are indented. On the under side of the 
 tail is placed a narrow^?2 without rays. It commences about 
 three quarters the length of the body from the root, and runs 
 along for about a space equal in length to the body. 

11. Genus. — Squalus or Shark. 

Fishes of the first order having on each side of the neck from 
 five to seven breathing apertures, without gill-covers or mem- 
 branes. 

In the mouths of the Ganges sharks are exceedingly nume- 

﻿4 GAXGETic FISHES. Order I. 

rous, and occasionally, but rarely, come up as far as Calcutta. 
 There would appear to be many species, usually divided by 
 our seamen into two kinds, — one, with rounded bodies, called 
 merely sharks ; and the other, with flattened heads and chests, 
 called ground-sharks. I have only had an opportunity of 
 ascertaining two of the species, both belonging to the first 
 kind. 

1st Species. — Squalus carcharias ? 

A shark with one anal fin ; with no aperture behind the 
 eye in place of an ear ; with triangular teeth, cut like a saw 
 on the edge ; and with the tail fin deficient near the point be- 
 low. 

This animal resembles very much the figure of the S. car- 
 charias, given by La Cepede, (Tome I. Planche VIII. fig. 1 ;) 
 but differs considerably from the figures given by Bloch (Ichth. 
 Tome IV. PI. CXIX.) and by Bonnaterre in the Tableau 
 Encijclopedique, (Plate VII. fig. 20,) in both of which the tail 
 fin entirely surrounds that member, in place of being deficient 
 on the under part, towards its point. I must, however, observe, 
 that the Pala sorra of Dr Russell (Indian Fishes, Vol. I. p, 9, 
 fig. 14,) is a fish resembling this shark very strongly indeed, 
 yet its caudal fin surrounds entirely the tail. We may there- 
 fore suspect, if this mark does not denote the difference of sex, 
 that we have two species agreeing with the specific character 
 usually given of the S. carcharias, or common shark. The 
 specimen from which I took the description was very small, 
 and differed from the full account given by La Cepede in the 
 few following particulars, which can scarcely pei'haps be con- 
 sidered as adequate to constitute a new species. 

The colour of the fish is above green, and beneath whitish, 
 with somewhat of a silver gloss. 

﻿Tetrodon. gangetic fishes. 5 

The nostrils are situated nearer the eyes than the end of the 
 head. On each side two parallel rows of punctures run from 
 the nape to the first aperture for breathing. Before each 
 eye there is another row, in form of a crescent, with the horns 
 turned towards the sides of the head. 

There is no longitudinal furrow on the tail. 

The insertion of the caudal Jin above is much shorter than 
 below. The hinder dorsal Jin is much smaller than the anal, 
 and is shaped somewhat like a sickle. 

2d Species. — Squalus pectinatus. 

A squalus with a long bony snout, armed on each side with 
 about 34 narrow teeth. 

Fristis pectinatus, Transactions of the Linnaean Society, Vol. 
 11. p. 278. 

Saw -fish of the English. 

This animal is said by the fishermen to grow to the length 
 of from six to seven and a half feet, and to live entirely on 
 weaker fishes. It would be needless to describe farther a fish 
 already well known to the naturalist. 

III. Genus. — Tetrodon. 

Fishes of the first order having projecting jaw-bones, each 
 divided as it were into two teeth, but there are no real teeth ; 
 and having no scales ; but the body is slimy, and is capable, at 
 the will of the animal, of being inflated. 

The fishes of this genus are eaten by the poor, but are con- 
 sidered as indifferent food ; nor does their quantity any where 
 occasion them to be of any importance. 

All the species described below have five Jns, of which the 
 dorsal is placed far back opposite to the anal ; and the pectorals^ 

﻿6 GANGETic FISHES. Order I. 

which are small, are placed near the middle of the fish in re- 
 spect to height. 

The rays of all the fins, except the caudal, are so covered by 
 a thick skin, and are so small, that they are numbered with dif- 
 ficulty and uncertainty, so that a great expectation of accuracy 
 concerning the numbers stated should not be entertained. 
 All these species have small horizontal mouths with fleshy lips, 
 the vent behind the middle, and the gill aperture near the pec- 
 toral fins, and forming part of a circle. 

1st Species. — Tetrodon fluviatilis. Plate XXX. Fig. 1. 

A tetrodon with a body little compressed ; with jaws of 
 nearly equal length, but the superior by a little the longer ; and 
 with the back dusky-green divided, by yellow lines, into angu- 
 lar spaces like the plots in a garden. 

This fish grows to about six inches in length, and is found in 
 the fresh water rivers of the lower parts of Bengal. On this 
 account it is called by the natives the river Patoka, to dis- 
 tinguish it from another found in ponds, and from another 
 found in estuaries, for the term Patoka is generic. 

This fish, as to form, when it inflates itself, has a moderately 
 projecting belly, somewhat shaped like an egg, and tapering 
 gradually to the tail. On the head, back, and belly, it is arm- 
 ed with small undivided prickles, which the animal can retract 
 into some large pores in its skin. With respect to colour, the 
 sides have lai*ge round spots, the lower parts are white. The 
 fins are dusky, with two dark transverse bars across that of the 
 tail. The eyes are yellow. When this fish has lived in dirty 
 water, its belly becomes black, and its fins yellow. 

The head slopes downward from the neck to the mouth, is 
 shaped like an egg, is large and wider than the body, and 
 ends bluntly. The jarv-hones do not protrude in opening. 

﻿Tetrodon. gangetic fishes. 7 
